portfolio-smjed/content/about.md, before:

---
title: "About Me"
date: "2025-01-01"
draft: false
aliases: ["about-us", "about", "contact"]
author:
  name: "Sabri MJAHED"
---

I'm a freelance System/Network/DevOps engineer with a lifelong passion for IT. From tinkering with code at an early age to architecting complex, high-availability infrastructures for enterprise clients, my journey in technology has been driven by curiosity, creativity, and a relentless desire to learn.

## Early Beginnings

### The Spark
At a young age, I was captivated by the power of the command-line interface (CLI) and the endless possibilities that coding offered. Being able to do whatever I wanted with a CLI was incredibly enriching and set the stage for my future in IT.

### Memorable Project
At just 15, I launched one of the most successful Minecraft servers, managing 10 interconnected servers hosted on dedicated OVH infrastructure. This early project was a defining moment that fueled my passion for system architecture and network management.

## Education & Impactful Projects

### Foundational Studies
- **High School:** I built a strong foundation in low-level networking, learning the essential concepts that underpin modern IT infrastructures.
- **Master’s Degree:** My advanced studies introduced me to high-level tools such as Jenkins and cloud computing platforms, significantly shaping my professional skill set.

### Academic Achievement
For my final school project, I developed an alerting and auto-blocking DDoS system. This project combined:
- **BGP (Border Gateway Protocol)**
- **ElasticSearch**
- **Machine Learning (ML)**
- **JA3 Signature Analysis**

This innovative solution to DDoS attacks remains one of my proudest accomplishments, showcasing my ability to integrate cutting-edge security measures with practical network solutions.

## Professional Expertise

I work with a diverse range of technologies and tools across storage, databases, security, and CI/CD. My adaptability and eagerness to learn new technologies allow me to tailor solutions to the needs of every project. Here are some highlights of my expertise:

- **CI/CD & Automation:**
  - Proficient in Jenkins and quick to learn tools like GitHub Actions.
  - Experienced in creating VM deployment pipelines using Terraform and deploying with Ansible.
  - Utilize Consul for service discovery, integrating with HAProxy, Prometheus, and other monitoring systems.

- **Infrastructure & Security:**
  - Managed complex on-premise projects such as setting up a fully redundant Point of Presence (PoP) in Paris.
    *This project involved overhauling the infrastructure with a new Proxmox cluster, configuring networking switches, routing, and firewalling—all while keeping production systems running smoothly.*

## Freelance Work & System Architecture

I thrive on projects that allow me to architect solutions from the ground up. I focus on designing systems that are:
- **Highly Available:** Ensuring robust and reliable performance.
- **Cost-Effective:** Balancing high performance with budget constraints.
- **Simple & Scalable:** Avoiding unnecessary complexity while delivering effective solutions.

## Current Role at Kindred France

In my current role at Kindred France, I lead initiatives in automation and CI/CD. My daily responsibilities include:
- Creating VM deployment pipelines that span multiple virtualization environments (vSphere, OpenStack, Proxmox) using Terraform.
- Deploying VMs with Ansible.
- Implementing Consul for dynamic service discovery, which integrates with HAProxy, Prometheus, and other monitoring tools.
- Overseeing a broad scope of security measures across the French market.

## Commitment to Open Source & Continuous Learning

I am a passionate advocate for open source and Linux communities. I contribute not only through code but also by enhancing documentation and sharing knowledge. Staying up-to-date is a daily habit—whether through online tutorials, RSS feeds, or Twitter, I constantly explore new technologies and innovations in IT and DevOps.

## Personal Interests

Beyond the world of IT, I have a range of interests that complement and enrich my professional life:
- **Cars & Mechanics:** My passion for automobiles and mechanics helps sharpen my problem-solving skills and attention to detail.
- **Watches & Photography:** These hobbies nurture my appreciation for precision and aesthetics.
- **Fitness:** Regular gym sessions keep me energized, focused, and ready to tackle new challenges.

---

If you’re interested in learning more about my work or discussing a project, feel free to [get in touch](mailto:contact@smjed.net).

Commit message:

Add open source contributions section to about and CV files

portfolio-smjed/content/about.md, after:

---
title: "About Me"
date: "2025-01-01"
draft: false
aliases: ["about-us", "about", "contact"]
author:
  name: "Sabri MJAHED"
---

I'm a freelance System/Network/DevOps engineer with a lifelong passion for IT. From tinkering with code at an early age to architecting complex, high-availability infrastructures for enterprise clients, my journey in technology has been driven by curiosity, creativity, and a relentless desire to learn.

## Early Beginnings

### The Spark
At a young age, I was captivated by the power of the command-line interface (CLI) and the endless possibilities that coding offered. Being able to do whatever I wanted with a CLI was incredibly enriching and set the stage for my future in IT.

### Memorable Project
At just 15, I launched one of the most successful Minecraft servers, managing 10 interconnected servers hosted on dedicated OVH infrastructure. This early project was a defining moment that fueled my passion for system architecture and network management.

## Education & Impactful Projects

### Foundational Studies
- **High School:** I built a strong foundation in low-level networking, learning the essential concepts that underpin modern IT infrastructures.
- **Master’s Degree:** My advanced studies introduced me to high-level tools such as Jenkins and cloud computing platforms, significantly shaping my professional skill set.

### Academic Achievement
For my final school project, I developed an alerting and auto-blocking DDoS system. This project combined:
- **BGP (Border Gateway Protocol)**
- **ElasticSearch**
- **Machine Learning (ML)**
- **JA3 Signature Analysis**

This innovative solution to DDoS attacks remains one of my proudest accomplishments, showcasing my ability to integrate cutting-edge security measures with practical network solutions.

## Professional Expertise

I work with a diverse range of technologies and tools across storage, databases, security, and CI/CD. My adaptability and eagerness to learn new technologies allow me to tailor solutions to the needs of every project. Here are some highlights of my expertise:

### Open Source Contributions
🌟 I actively contribute to the open source community through projects like my **Terraform Provider for Centreon V2 API** ([GitHub](https://github.com/Sabrimjd/terraform-provider-centreon/)). This provider enables infrastructure as code capabilities for the Centreon monitoring platform, demonstrating my expertise in Go programming and the HashiCorp ecosystem.

- **CI/CD & Automation:**
  - Proficient in Jenkins and quick to learn tools like GitHub Actions.
  - Experienced in creating VM deployment pipelines using Terraform and deploying with Ansible.
  - Utilize Consul for service discovery, integrating with HAProxy, Prometheus, and other monitoring systems.

- **Infrastructure & Security:**
  - Managed complex on-premise projects such as setting up a fully redundant Point of Presence (PoP) in Paris.
    *This project involved overhauling the infrastructure with a new Proxmox cluster, configuring networking switches, routing, and firewalling—all while keeping production systems running smoothly.*

## Freelance Work & System Architecture

I thrive on projects that allow me to architect solutions from the ground up. I focus on designing systems that are:
- **Highly Available:** Ensuring robust and reliable performance.
- **Cost-Effective:** Balancing high performance with budget constraints.
- **Simple & Scalable:** Avoiding unnecessary complexity while delivering effective solutions.

## Current Role at Kindred France

In my current role at Kindred France, I lead initiatives in automation and CI/CD. My daily responsibilities include:
- Creating VM deployment pipelines that span multiple virtualization environments (vSphere, OpenStack, Proxmox) using Terraform.
- Deploying VMs with Ansible.
- Implementing Consul for dynamic service discovery, which integrates with HAProxy, Prometheus, and other monitoring tools.
- Overseeing a broad scope of security measures across the French market.

## Commitment to Open Source & Continuous Learning

I am a passionate advocate for open source and Linux communities. I contribute not only through code but also by enhancing documentation and sharing knowledge. Staying up-to-date is a daily habit—whether through online tutorials, RSS feeds, or Twitter, I constantly explore new technologies and innovations in IT and DevOps.

## Personal Interests

Beyond the world of IT, I have a range of interests that complement and enrich my professional life:
- **Cars & Mechanics:** My passion for automobiles and mechanics helps sharpen my problem-solving skills and attention to detail.
- **Watches & Photography:** These hobbies nurture my appreciation for precision and aesthetics.
- **Fitness:** Regular gym sessions keep me energized, focused, and ready to tackle new challenges.

---

If you’re interested in learning more about my work or discussing a project, feel free to [get in touch](mailto:contact@smjed.net).
