portfolio-smjed/content/cv.md, before:

---
title: "My Resume"
type: "resume"
---

## Summary

> I'm a freelance System/Network/DevOps engineer with a lifelong passion for IT. From tinkering with code at an early age to architecting complex, high-availability infrastructures for enterprise clients, my journey in technology has been driven by curiosity, creativity, and a relentless desire to learn.

## Experience

### Kindred France | System engineer | 2021 - Present

*   Led and implemented the automatic deployment of VM and application with CI/CD, acchieving multiple deployment per day.
    *   Used Jenkins for pipelining with Git
    *   Used Ansible to deploy the VM initliazation roles and the needed apps
    *   Used Terraform to deploy accross 10 datacenter with 4 different provider (OpenStack, Proxmox, Vsphere, Netbox) using the same template file
    *   Used Netbox as a Source of truth to link everything together and document the whole infrastructure.
    *   Used Consul to automaticaly feed a the services pools for HaProxy and Prometheus
    *   Used Vault for storing credentials
*   Accountable for the french security scope, leading the needed fix of vulnerabilities.
*   Implemented the whole Elastic Stack that manages a 200TB of logs with 10 nodes and Kafka for :
    *   SIEM
    *   Logging (Network, Apps, System)
    *   EDR
    *   Springboot monitoring with APM
    *   Network monitoring
    *   Uptime and SLA/SLOs with Synthetics
*   Integrated a fully highly available Proxmox cluster arround 4 racks and 2 datacenter using CEPH
    *   Managed the networking with 4 * 25GB per host (with 30 host total)
    *   Automatic deployment with PXE
*   Multi datacenter Squid proxy with EBGP

#### Business owner and/or implementor of

| Technology Stack | Components/Tools |
|-----------------|------------------|
| Elastic Stack | Logstash, Kibana, ElasticSearch, Java APM, Elastic Agents, Splunk Integration |
| Hashicorp | Vault, Terraform, Consul, Jenkins |
| Databases | Couchbase, Redis, PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL |
| Virtualization | Proxmox |
| Message Queuing | Kafka |
| Networking | Proxy Squid |
| Tools | Remote Desktop Manager |

Other skills acquired:

| Category | Technologies/Tools |
|----------|-------------------|
| Security Solutions | FortiGate, FortiAnalyzer, FortiAuthenticator, FortiManager |
| Load Balancing | F5 BigIP, HaProxy |
| Networking | Nftables, Iptables, Juniper JunOS |
| Infrastructure | Netbox, Packer |
| Collaboration Tools | Bitbucket, Jira, Confluence |

### VINC | System engineer | 2019 - 2021

*   Archictured the new plateform with new BGP routers and Firewalls
*   Managed Proxmox cluster arround 2 datacenters
*   Responsible for SLA and communication with clients for production accident
*   Implementation of websites arround client needs
*   Implemented a new DNS stack with high availability in mind


### Multi-Visp / Azuria | System administrator | 2017 - 2019

*   Installed complete new racks in Telehouse2
*   Cable management between two rooms
*   Installed managed wifi equipmenents
*   Implemented high availability multi datacenter VPN services

### Education

**Louis Armand | BAC**

*   Learned the basics of
    *   Networking
    *   Firewalling
    *   Electricity


**Louis Armand | BTS**

*   Learned basics of
    *   Algorithm with Python
    *   Web development with PHP
    *   Distributed Storage
    *   Routing with OSPF

**ESGI | Master degree**

*   As my degree project
    *  Deployed an Elastic Stack with ML
    *  Auto detect anomaly with JA3 Signature
    *  Import JA3er database to automaticaly ban from JunOS Router L3
    *  Dynamicaly rate limit / block traffic at L7

### Personal Website | Developed a personal website to showcase my skills and experience | Hugo, HTML, CSS, JavaScript

*   Designed and developed a responsive website using Hugo, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
*   Implemented a blog to share my thoughts on software development and technology.

## Contact Information

*   Email: contact@smjed.net

Commit message:

Add open source contributions section to about and CV files

portfolio-smjed/content/cv.md, after:

---
title: "My Resume"
type: "resume"
---

## Summary

> I'm a freelance System/Network/DevOps engineer with a lifelong passion for IT. From tinkering with code at an early age to architecting complex, high-availability infrastructures for enterprise clients, my journey in technology has been driven by curiosity, creativity, and a relentless desire to learn.

## Open Source Contributions

🌟 **Terraform Provider for Centreon V2 API**
> Developed and maintained a custom Terraform provider for Centreon's V2 API, enabling infrastructure as code capabilities for Centreon monitoring platform.
- GitHub Repository: [terraform-provider-centreon](https://github.com/Sabrimjd/terraform-provider-centreon/)
- Key achievement in bridging the gap between infrastructure automation and monitoring
- Demonstrates expertise in Go programming and HashiCorp's Terraform ecosystem

## Experience

### Kindred France | System engineer | 2021 - Present

*   Led and implemented the automatic deployment of VM and application with CI/CD, acchieving multiple deployment per day.
    *   Used Jenkins for pipelining with Git
    *   Used Ansible to deploy the VM initliazation roles and the needed apps
    *   Used Terraform to deploy accross 10 datacenter with 4 different provider (OpenStack, Proxmox, Vsphere, Netbox) using the same template file
    *   Used Netbox as a Source of truth to link everything together and document the whole infrastructure.
    *   Used Consul to automaticaly feed a the services pools for HaProxy and Prometheus
    *   Used Vault for storing credentials
*   Accountable for the french security scope, leading the needed fix of vulnerabilities.
*   Implemented the whole Elastic Stack that manages a 200TB of logs with 10 nodes and Kafka for :
    *   SIEM
    *   Logging (Network, Apps, System)
    *   EDR
    *   Springboot monitoring with APM
    *   Network monitoring
    *   Uptime and SLA/SLOs with Synthetics
*   Integrated a fully highly available Proxmox cluster arround 4 racks and 2 datacenter using CEPH
    *   Managed the networking with 4 * 25GB per host (with 30 host total)
    *   Automatic deployment with PXE
*   Multi datacenter Squid proxy with EBGP

#### Business owner and/or implementor of

| Technology Stack | Components/Tools |
|-----------------|------------------|
| Elastic Stack | Logstash, Kibana, ElasticSearch, Java APM, Elastic Agents, Splunk Integration |
| Hashicorp | Vault, Terraform, Consul, Jenkins |
| Databases | Couchbase, Redis, PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL |
| Virtualization | Proxmox |
| Message Queuing | Kafka |
| Networking | Proxy Squid |
| Tools | Remote Desktop Manager |

Other skills acquired:

| Category | Technologies/Tools |
|----------|-------------------|
| Security Solutions | FortiGate, FortiAnalyzer, FortiAuthenticator, FortiManager |
| Load Balancing | F5 BigIP, HaProxy |
| Networking | Nftables, Iptables, Juniper JunOS |
| Infrastructure | Netbox, Packer |
| Collaboration Tools | Bitbucket, Jira, Confluence |

### VINC | System engineer | 2019 - 2021

*   Archictured the new plateform with new BGP routers and Firewalls
*   Managed Proxmox cluster arround 2 datacenters
*   Responsible for SLA and communication with clients for production accident
*   Implementation of websites arround client needs
*   Implemented a new DNS stack with high availability in mind


### Multi-Visp / Azuria | System administrator | 2017 - 2019

*   Installed complete new racks in Telehouse2
*   Cable management between two rooms
*   Installed managed wifi equipmenents
*   Implemented high availability multi datacenter VPN services

### Education

**Louis Armand | BAC**

*   Learned the basics of
    *   Networking
    *   Firewalling
    *   Electricity


**Louis Armand | BTS**

*   Learned basics of
    *   Algorithm with Python
    *   Web development with PHP
    *   Distributed Storage
    *   Routing with OSPF

**ESGI | Master degree**

*   As my degree project
    *  Deployed an Elastic Stack with ML
    *  Auto detect anomaly with JA3 Signature
    *  Import JA3er database to automaticaly ban from JunOS Router L3
    *  Dynamicaly rate limit / block traffic at L7

### Personal Website | Developed a personal website to showcase my skills and experience | Hugo, HTML, CSS, JavaScript

*   Designed and developed a responsive website using Hugo, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
*   Implemented a blog to share my thoughts on software development and technology.

## Contact Information

*   Email: contact@smjed.net
